Updating distribution metrics doc (#12897)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/metrics/distributions.md

{{< img src="metrics/distributions/percentiles.mp4" alt="Enable Percentiles" video=true style="width:80%;">}}

After electing to apply percentile aggregations on a distribution metric, these aggregations are automatically available in the graphing UI:

{{< img src="metrics/distributions/graph_percentiles.jpg" alt="Distribution metric aggregations" style="width:80%;">}}

You can use percentile aggregations in a variety of other widgets and for alerting: 
* **Single percentile value over any timeframe**
_“What has the p95 request duration for my application been over the past week?”_ 

{{< img src="metrics/distributions/percentile_QVW.jpg" alt="Single Percentile Value QVW" style="width:80%;">}}

* **Percentile thresholds on metric monitors**
_ “Alert me when the p99 of my application’s request latency is greater than 200 ms for the last 5 min.”_ 

{{< img src="metrics/distributions/percentile_monitor.jpg" alt="Percentile Threshold for Metric Monitors" style="width:80%;">}}

### Threshold Queries for SLOs (beta) 

> Please contact your CSM to request access to the threshold queries beta. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-warning">
Threshold queries is in beta. Contact your CSM to request access. 
</div>
```

> Enabling DDSketch-calculated globally accurate percentiles on your distribution metrics unlocks threshold queries for SLOs where you can count the number of raw distribution metric values if they exceed/fall below a numerical threshold. So you’ll be able to define SLOS for the past 30 days where the p95 request latency is < 10 seconds. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling DDSketch-calculated globally-accurate percentiles on your distribution metrics unlocks threshold queries for SLOs where you can count the number of raw distribution metric values if they exceed or fall below a numerical threshold. So for example, you can define SLOs for the past 30 days where the p95 request latency is < 10 seconds. 
```

> With threshold queries for distributions with percentiles, users no longer need to predefine a threshold value prior to metric submission and have full flexibility to adjust the threshold value in-app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With threshold queries for distributions with percentiles, you do not need to predefine a threshold value prior to metric submission, and have full flexibility to adjust the threshold value in Datadog.
```

> To use threshold queries: 
> 1. Enable percentiles on your distribution metric on the Metrics Summary page.
> 2. Then you can now graph any distribution metric with the new “count values...” aggregator and specify a threshold value and comparison operator as shown here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use threshold queries: 

1. Enable percentiles on your distribution metric on the Metrics Summary page.
2. Graph any distribution metric with the “count values...” aggregator and specify a threshold value and comparison operator as shown here:
```

Distributions are a metric type that aggregate values sent from multiple hosts during a flush interval to measure statistical distributions across your entire infrastructure.

Global distributions instrument logical objects, like services, independently from the underlying hosts. Unlike [histograms][1] which aggregate on the Agent-side, global distributions send all raw data collected during the flush interval and the aggregation occurs server-side using Datadog's [DDSketch data structure][2]. 

> Distributions provide enhanced query functionality and configuration options that aren’t offered with other metric types (count, rate, gauge, histogram):
> * **Calculation of percentile aggregations**: Distributions are stored as DDSketch data structures that represent raw, unaggregated data such that globally accurate percentile aggregations (p50, p75, p90, p95, p99) can be calculated across the raw data from all your hosts. Enabling percentile aggregations can unlock advanced query functionalities such as: 
>   * **Single percentile value over any timeframe**:
>      _“What has the p95 load time for my application been over the past week?”_
> 
>   * **Percentile thresholds on metric monitors**:
>     _“Alert me when the p99 of my application’s request latency is greater than 200 ms for the last 5 min.”_
> 
>   * **Threshold Queries for SLOs**:
>     _“I’d like to define a 30-day SLO where the p95 of request latency is < 5 seconds”_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Distributions provide enhanced query functionality and configuration options that aren’t offered with other metric types (count, rate, gauge, histogram):
* **Calculation of percentile aggregations**: Distributions are stored as DDSketch data structures that represent raw, unaggregated data such that globally accurate percentile aggregations (p50, p75, p90, p95, p99) can be calculated across the raw data from all your hosts. Enabling percentile aggregations can unlock advanced query functionalities such as: 

  * **Single percentile value over any timeframe**:
  
     _“What has the p95 load time for my application been over the past week?”_

  * **Percentile thresholds on metric monitors**:
  
    _“Alert me when the p99 of my application’s request latency is greater than 200 ms for the last 5 min.”_

  * **Threshold Queries for SLOs**:
  
    _“I’d like to define a 30-day SLO where the p95 of request latency is < 5 seconds”_
```

Reviewer: The markdown is being weird in this section, it's displaying the italics underscors and showing it on the same line, so suggest adding some blank lines in there to hopefully fix it.

## Enabling percentile aggregations

Like other metric types, such as `gauges` or `histograms`, distributions have the following aggregations available: `count`, `min`, `max`, `sum`, and `avg`. Distributions are initially tagged the same way as other metrics, with custom tags set in code. They are then resolved to host tags based on the host that reported the metric. 

However, you can additionally enable the calculation of globally accurate percentile aggregations for all queryable tags on your distribution on the Metrics Summary page. This provides aggregations for `p50`, `p75`, `p90`, `p95`, and `p99` as well as advanced query options like threshold queries for SLOs.

{{< img src="metrics/distributions/percentiles.mp4" alt="Enable Percentiles" video=true style="width:80%;">}}

After electing to apply percentile aggregations on a distribution metric, these aggregations are automatically available in the graphing UI:

{{< img src="metrics/distributions/graph_percentiles.jpg" alt="Distribution metric aggregations" style="width:80%;">}}

You can use percentile aggregations in a variety of other widgets and for alerting: 

> * **Single percentile value over any timeframe**
> _“What has the p95 request duration for my application been over the past week?”_ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Single percentile value over any timeframe**

_“What has the p95 request duration for my application been over the past week?”_ 
```

> {{< img src="metrics/distributions/percentile_QVW.jpg" alt="Single Percentile Value QVW" style="width:80%;">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="metrics/distributions/percentile_QVW.jpg" alt="A query value widget displaying a single value (7.33s) for the p95 aggregation of a single metric" style="width:80%;">}}
```

* **Percentile thresholds on metric monitors**
_ “Alert me when the p99 of my application’s request latency is greater than 200 ms for the last 5 min.”_ 

> {{< img src="metrics/distributions/percentile_monitor.jpg" alt="Percentile Threshold for Metric Monitors" style="width:80%;">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="metrics/distributions/percentile_monitor.jpg" alt="Percentile threshold being set with a drop down for alert conditions in a monitor " style="width:80%;">}}
```

> ### Threshold Queries for SLOs (beta) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Threshold Queries for SLOs (beta) 

```

<div class="alert alert-warning">
Threshold queries are in beta. 
</div>

Enabling DDSketch-calculated globally-accurate percentiles on your distribution metrics unlocks threshold queries for SLOs where you can count the number of raw distribution metric values if they exceed or fall below a numerical threshold. So for example, you can define SLOs for the past 30 days where the p95 request latency is < 10 seconds. 

With threshold queries for distributions with percentiles, you do not need to predefine a threshold value prior to metric submission, and have full flexibility to adjust the threshold value in Datadog.

To use threshold queries: 

1. Enable percentiles on your distribution metric on the Metrics Summary page.

> 2. Graph any distribution metric with the “count values...” aggregator and specify a threshold value and comparison operator as shown here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Graph your chosen distribution metric using the “count values...” aggregator.
3. Specify a threshold value and comparison operator.
```

> {{< img src="metrics/distributions/threshold_queries.mp4" alt="Threshold Queries" style="width:80%;">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="metrics/distributions/threshold_queries.mp4" alt="A timeseries graph being visualized using the count values aggregator, with a threshold of greater than 8 seconds" style="width:80%;">}}
```

Example metric-based SLO set up:

> {{< img src="metrics/distributions/threshold_SLO.jpg" alt="Threshold Queries for SLOs" style="width:80%;">}}

Reviewer: This bit is super inaccessible, not sure we even need the image. If we're keeping it, can we crop it so the side bar on the right with all the extra text is gone, and add more text description to the steps so that we're actually describing this, not just showing an image?

However, you can additionally enable the calculation of globally accurate percentile aggregations for all queryable tags on your distribution on the Metrics Summary page. This provides aggregations for `p50`, `p75`, `p90`, `p95`, and `p99` as well as advanced query options like threshold queries for SLOs.

{{< img src="metrics/distributions/percentiles.mp4" alt="Enable Percentiles" video=true style="width:80%;">}}

After electing to apply percentile aggregations on a distribution metric, these aggregations are automatically available in the graphing UI:

{{< img src="metrics/distributions/graph_percentiles.jpg" alt="Distribution metric aggregations" style="width:80%;">}}

You can use percentile aggregations in a variety of other widgets and for alerting: 
* **Single percentile value over any timeframe**

_“What has the p95 request duration for my application been over the past week?”_ 

{{< img src="metrics/distributions/percentile_QVW.jpg" alt="A query value widget displaying a single value (7.33s) for the p95 aggregation of a single metric" style="width:80%;">}}

> * **Percentile thresholds on metric monitors**
> _ “Alert me when the p99 of my application’s request latency is greater than 200 ms for the last 5 min.”_ 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Percentile thresholds on metric monitors**
  _ “Alert me when the p99 of my application’s request latency is greater than 200 ms for the last 5 min.”_ 

```

Reviewer: These are still displaying wrong on the staging preview, hopefully this fixes it 🤞🏻

**Note**: The exclusion of tags is not supported in the allowlist-based customization of tags. Adding tags starting with `!` is not accepted.

> {{< img src="metrics/distributions/dist_manage.jpg" alt="Configuring tags on a distribution" style="width:80%;">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="metrics/distributions/dist_manage.jpg" alt="Configuring tags on a distribution with the Manage Tags button" style="width:80%;">}}
```
